A FEDERAL High Court in Abuja has fixed August 29, 2022, for judgement in the extradition case involving suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari. Justice Inyang Ekwo announced the date on Friday after lawyers to parties in the suit made their final submissions. Nureini Jimoh (SAN), Lawyer to Kyari, faulted the extradition application filed by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and prayed the court to reject it. READ ALSO: Abba Kyari is safe in Kuje prison – Nigerian Correctional Service Court refuses to grant Abba Kyari’s co-defendant bail NDLEA marks Abba Kyari’s houses, shopping plaza in Abuja, Maiduguri for investigation Abba Kyari: NDLEA arrests suspected drug baron behind N3 billion Tramadol deal Pius Akutah, a lawyer representing the AGF, argued otherwise, insisting that the AGF has complied with all requirements for an extradition process. Akutah prayed the court to allow the application and order the AGF to surrender Kyari as requested by the United States (US). The US requested the Nigerian authorities to surrender Kyari because of his alleged link with international fraud suspect Abbas Ramon (a.k.a Hushpuppi). Earlier on Thursday, A federal high court in Abuja granted a request by Abba Kyari, the detained deputy commissioner of police, to file more evidence to challenge the suit by the Nigerian government seeking to extradite him to the US to face fraud charges. Nigeria’s Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, filed the extradition proceedings against Kyari, seeking the court’s approval to surrender him to the United States government. The American government wants Kyari over pending fraud charges filed against him and others at the Central District Court of California. US prosecutors accused him of complicity in the $1.1million international fraud spearheaded by Huspuppi, who now awaits sentencing after pleading guilty to the scam and other criminal financial activities. At Thursday’s court session, the judge, Inyang Ekwo, granted the request that Kyari made through his lead counsel, Jimoh, in a motion on notice. Jimoh, while arguing the application, asked the court to allow Kyari to bring additional documentary exhibits to establish his innocence in the charges against him. But, the federal government’s lawyer, Akuta, opposed the request. Akuta based his opposition on an attempt to cure flaws in the earlier documentary evidence presented by Kyari. However, Ekwo rejected the objection in a short ruling and granted Kyari permission to furnish the court with further documentary exhibits to support his defence. Subsequently, the suit was adjourned until June 3 for a definite hearing in the extradition suit.