The ICIR has observed that the Saturday councils election in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has been characterised by Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) failure, low voters turnout and late arrival of the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in some areas. Follow this link here for live update of the election. The election, which is currently holding in over 1000 polling units across the six area councils that made up the FCT is being contested by 478 candidates, who are battling for 6 chairmanship and 62 councillorship positions. Fourteen political parties are participating in the poll, which holds in the six area councils namely; Abaji, Kwali, Bwari, Kuje, Gwagwalada and Abuja Municipal (AMAC). The ICIR reporter, who visited the polling units across the Abuja Municipal (AMAC) stated that the INEC officials were late to the polling units. She added that the ongoing election in the council is also witnessing a low voters turnout. The story is also the same in Gwagwalada area council, where The ICIR reporter in the area observed low voters turnout. He also reported that the election in the council is also being frustrated by BVAS failure, which is making the accreditation and voting process slow. In Kuje Area council, The ICIR reporter in the area observed low voters turnout across multiple polling units with some deserted. He also highlighted BVAS failure and the late arrival of Electoral officials as major factors frustrating the election process in the council. Meanwhile, the reporter at PU 025/ Kuje Central/ ECWA church, The ICIR reporter observed both INEC staff and Party agents were sleeping. The BVAS broke down since morning. Meanwhile as at 1:11pm, voters at Narati Sabo polling unit 003 at Abaji Area Council were frustrated as women who constitute a greater number of voters struggle for accreditation with huge concerns of BVAS machine failure. The ICIR has observed incidences of vote-buying in Abaji Area council in the ongoing Saturday election. The reporter, who is covering the area council for The ICIR said although the polling units in the council are witnessing high voters turnout, however, they are being solicited by party agents. For instance, at Anyaura polling unit 003, over 2000 voters were reportedly accredited, as security agents struggle to contain the ground, while party agents are giving numbers to people who voted telling them to go and wait in a designated area for reward. A party agent who does not want his name to appear in print told The ICIR that the polling unit is the swing centre for Abaji Local government chairmanship election. The party seen intensifying lobbying were mostly APC agents. Party agents were also seen clustering around and subtly wooing voters across other polling units in the council. Similarly, at 12:16pm, there was uproar at Dutsen Alhaji Primary school, in Bwari Area council as a woman was caught sharing money for voters. The ICIR has observed that there is confusion in some polling units in Bwari area council, as voters who turned up at their polling units met the absence of INEC officials. The ICIR reporter, who visited some polling units in the area, said the INEC officials on ground were confused on where to set up their cubicle for the election process. The INEC officials who first set up their materials for the election at the polling Unit 026, Dutse Gwari Extension, removed the materials and left, but later returned to the same place a few minutes to 12 noon to commence the election. The situation is also similar at a popular Mango tree in Dutse Alhaji, where voters who turned up met the absence of INEC officials. FCT LG Election: Confusion, disagreement on where to station Polling Unit in Dutse Follow our live updates here: https://t.co/eEgc6fy3JT#ICeeiReport #AbujaLGelection #FCTLGelection pic.twitter.com/Ts7NX6b076 — The ICIR (@TheICIR) February 12, 2022  The voters around the place said there used to be two polling unit around the area but saw no INEC officials around, which made some of them to return to their respective homes. As at 12:35pm, voters gathered at Mango tree said they used to cast their votes there and they have gone to other places around too to check their names but they didn’t find it. While some of them are seen holding their voter’s cards, others have gone back to their houses. The confusion could be connected to the INEC decision not to hold election in 593 polling units across the councils. The ICIR had earlier reported that the INEC said the election will not hold in 593 polling units across the councils without registered voters.