THE Presidency has admitted there is hardship in Nigeria but blamed the situation on the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity Garba Shehu linked the hardship in Nigeria to the coronavirus pandemic and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine when he appeared on Channels Television’s ‘Politics Today’ on Monday. READ ALSO: Strike: SERAP asks Buhari to redirect Presidency, NASS budgets to ASUU No one person responsible for Buhari’s victory, Presidency reacts to Tinubu APC govs visit Buhari, back Shettima’s selection as Tinubu’s running mate Floods, high fares, road works impede Lagos commuting He however noted that despite the effects of the COVID-19 lockdown and the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, which have weakened the world economy, the Buhari-led administration had made giant strides to better the lives of Nigerians. Shehu added that there is hardship in other parts of the world. He said, “All of these things you have mentioned we don’t deny that there is hardship in the country so also difficulty in all parts of the world. “In many cases, this is expected; leaders across the globe are being lashed at by their publics. All these have arisen from the lockdown of COVID-19. Most of this petroleum we’re consuming is brought from outside. “So all of these things are impacted upon by the war in Ukraine who supplies it, but thank God with the massive agricultural vision of the President we eat what we grow and grow what we eat.” Speaking on the recent comment the President made on the ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Shehu said Buhari has the right to appeal on behalf of Nigerians. The presidential spokesman added, “The President has the right to appeal on behalf of Nigerians. This is the sixth month of the ongoing strike. Is there any right for one to insist on taking 100 per cent of the grievances they have? This was a 2009 agreement signed by the then government. “Why is Buhari being held by the neck? What happened in the past? Why didn’t they strangle the past administrations on these matters?”