PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the military to confront terrorists and wipe them out of the surface of the earth. The President gave the marching order at the graduation of 247 students of the Senior Course 44 of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, Kaduna State. READ ALSO: Buhari’s Twitter ban violated rights of Nigerians, unlawful – ECOWAS court I’m eager to leave office, it has been tough – Buhari Buhari to ASUU: Enough is enough, return to class I won’t rest until I bring relief to Nigerians, says Buhari in Sallah message He said, “The West African sub-region and indeed our beloved continent of Africa are not immune to threats. “We have witnessed recent terrorist attacks in Nigeria, bearing the hallmark of national and trans-border insurgents trying to cause havoc in Nigeria as well as in neighbouring countries. “It will be part of your duty to confront these terrorists and insurgents and wipe them off the face of the earth and bring peace to our countries.” Buhari said his administration will continue to intensify efforts in waging war against terrorism in the country. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria are working tirelessly to enhance their combat effectiveness, operational capability and training necessary to eliminate the threats, in synergy with other institutions and nations. ‘‘The response of the Armed Forces of Nigeria to the Boko Haram insurgency, banditry, militancy, kidnapping as well as the activities of separatists and armed militias amongst others have been commendable. ‘‘This government will continue to provide the required guidance and support to ensure that the desired results are achieved.” Earlier in his welcome address, the Commandant of the College, Air Vice Marshall (AVM) Olurotimi Tuwase, explained that 111 army officers, 69 naval officers, 42 air force officers, 10 students from paramilitary organisations and ministries, department and agencies as well as 15 international students completed the 48 weeks intensive training, leading to the award of Pass Staff Course (PSC). Tuwase added that the international students on the Senior Course 44 were from Burkina Faso, Cameroun, Chad, The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Togo and Zambia. The commandant thanked the President for his unflinching support to the college, noting that students from the prestigious school have been sufficiently trained and equipped to cope with most challenges in their careers.