LEGAL website, PlainSite.org, on Tuesday in a tweet, said traffic to its website experienced a surge resulting from files about Bola Tinubu’s drug money forfeiture case dockets. The website have uploaded dockets of All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Tinubu’s drug money forfeiture case files in the United States (US). The files from 1993 recently became awash on social media. READ ALSO: Dapo Apara, former MD of Alpha-Beta accuses Tinubu of fraud, tax evasion Pandora Papers: Buhari visited Tinubu in corruption-tainted London villa acquired by Oyetola Tinubu, Adenuga, Otedola, Others Owe Nigeria N86 Billion In Fuel Sales In its tweet, PlainSite.org announced that an increase in traffic on its site by visitors were drawn to Tinubu’s money laundering files which eclipsed interest in Elon Musk’s lawsuit. However, The ICIR could not independently verify the claims but checks reveal that it had a total of 63,222 views as of July 19.   PlainSite.org is a website that posts court documents and thus makes criminal records and case dockets on individuals or entities easier to find. The website is run by California-based software developer Aaron Greenspan. In July 1993, when Tinubu briefly served as a senator, the US government filed a forfeiture lawsuit in Chicago against bank accounts in his name. It was alleged, there was “probable cause” to believe they held the proceeds of heroin dealing.  The case followed a probe by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other agencies into a trafficking network involving Nigerian suppliers. The IRS secured warrants in January 1992 to seize almost $2 million, according to court filings. Tinubu settled out of court in September 1993, agreeing to give up $460,000 to the US government in exchange for the release of the rest of the money. Tinubu wasn’t indicted over the matter. There are over 14 million court dockets on PlainSite. Google adsense revealed the only docket that reportedly has a problem which is the first time since 2011 on its website involves Bola Tinubu.  PlainSite uploaded dockets of Tinubu’s drug money forfeiture case file and in very short order, which were falsely reported to Google by unknown persons for ‘malicious software”, the website stated.