THE Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said the ongoing nationwide continuous voter registration (CVR) will end on July 31, 2022. INEC spokesperson Festus Okoye, who disclosed this to newsmen, said the decision was made at an extraordinary session which took place on Friday. The electoral umpire said the exercise has also been extended from six hours daily to eight hours daily – from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm. Okoye also disclosed that INEC has extended the voter registration exercise to weekends. Until now voters can only register weekdays. The Commission asked Nigerians to take advantage of the new two-week extension to register for their permanent voter cards (PVCs). INEC had earlier fixed June 30 as the deadline for the ongoing CVR ahead of the 2023 elections but was stopped by the order of an Abuja Federal High Court on June 20 following a suit brought by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP). SERAP and 185 concerned Nigerians had filed the lawsuit against INEC, asking the court to “declare unconstitutional, illegal, and incompatible with international standards the failure of the electoral body to extend the deadline for voter registration to allow eligible Nigerians to exercise their rights.” In the suit numbered FHC/L/CS/1034/2022, filed at the Federal High Court, Lagos, and transferred to Abuja, SERAP had asked the court to restrain INEC from discontinuing the continuous voters’ registration exercise from the 30th June 2022 or any other date pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. SERAP also asked the court for to declarr that the failure of INEC to extend the deadline for voter registration is a violation of eligible Nigerians’ rights to participate freely in their own government, equality and equal protection. The court was equally asked to make an order of mandamus to compel INEC to extend voter registration by a minimum of three months and take effective measures to ensure that eligible Nigerians are able to register to exercise their right to vote in the 2023 general elections. In the motion on notice, SERAP argued, “Enforcing unrealistic voter registration deadline while extending the deadline for party primaries would deny and abridge the constitutional and international human rights of eligible voters. “INEC mandates ought to be exercised in a fair, just and non-discriminatory manner. The extension of voter registration would ensure that Nigerian voters are treated equally and fairly. The future of Nigeria’s democracy depends on it. “Voters are also critical stakeholders in the electoral process. Treating all eligible Nigerian voters fairly would advance the people’s right to vote and to participate in their own government. “INEC must not only be independent and impartial in the exercise of its constitutional and statutory responsibilities, but must also be seen to be independent and impartial. “Extending the voter registration exercise would also bolster voter confidence in the electoral process. “One of the people’s most sacred rights is the right to vote. The commission has a constitutional and statutory responsibility to ensure the effective exercise of the right of all eligible voters to participate in their own government. “Extending the deadline for party primaries without providing adequate time and opportunity for eligible voters to register and participate in the 2023 general elections would amount to an unfair and discriminatory treatment of Nigerian voters, and violate other human rights. “Extending the voter registration deadline would provide more time for eligible voters, including young people, the elderly, people living with disability, as well as those resident in states facing security challenges and living in IDP camps to participate in the 2023 elections.” “Extending the deadline for voter registration would be entirely consistent with constitutional and international standards, and the Electoral Act. Any such extension would also not impact negatively on INEC’s election calendar and activities.”