THE Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is giving special attention to disabled and elderly persons as well as pregnant women in the ongoing governorship election in Ekiti State. But The ICIR also observed that in some polling units, the disabled, elderly persons and pregnant women were ignored and left to queue in line waiting for their turn. Elderly persons were seen seated in some polling units as the presiding officers announced priority voting would be observed. In Polling Unit 04, Ward 04 of Ede North Local Government Area, Osun West, an individual bearing a tag with the inscription ‘Personnel’ was seen helping an elderly woman cast her vote. An election supervisor in Obokun LGA, Polling Unit 1, addressed the electorate and informed them that priorities will be given to the elderly persons. In Polling Unit 20, Ward 01 Moore, St Paul Ang Pry School, of Ife East Local Government, Osun East, elderly persons were given priority attention in the order of voting. An elderly man was having issues with BVAS as the machine did not recognise his image and thumbprint. He was later asked to wait. In Atakumosa West LGA, RA 01 (OSU 1), PU 001, Methodist Primary School, Oke-Oja, OSU, voting started by 8:30 am and priority attention was given to the elderly and physically challenged persons. But at Polling Unit 06 of Ward 01, Osun East, two elderly women were seen in the queue among other voters. They were not given priority attention and were forced to wait for their turn. There was a child in the queue. However, it was not a case for underage voting as it seems she’s a grandchild to one of the elderly persons. In Iwo LGA (Oke Adan) Ward 09 Polling Unit 001, no separate queues or chairs were made available for elderly persons. The ICIR observed that in Ward 2, Ilode, Polling Unit 012, in front of Akodu Lokore Strt, persons with disability were not prioritised. They had to join the queue to cast their votes. At Polling Unit 002 of Town Hall 1, Ward 04 Iperindo Atakumonsa, in Osun East, voters in the queue protested when an election observer helped an elderly man to cast his ballot. He was later sent out by security officials.