UKATU Afamefuna Mallinson, a billionaire arrested by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for allegedly importing Tramadol worth about N22 billion, has been remanded in the facility of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS). A Lagos Federal High Court remanded Ukatu and one of his co-defendants, Sunday Ifeanyi Ibekwute, on Friday. Ukatu and Ibekwute were arraigned before the court by the NDLEA. The court, presided over by Justice Peter Lifu, remanded the two defendants after they pleaded not guilty to charges bordering on conspiracy, trafficking in 322 kilograms of Tramadol and unlawful dealing and possession banned substances. During their arraignment, NDLEA prosecutor, Theresa Asuquo, told the court the offences contravened sections 14(b); 11, and 11(b) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) Act Cap N30, Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (LFN) 2004. The NDLEA, in the charge marked FHC/L/159c/2021, alleged that Ukatu, Sunday, and one Pius Enidom, who had jumped bail on May 4, 2021, conspired among themselves to engage in trafficking, unlawful possessing and dealing in 322 kilograms of Tramadol. After pleading not guilty, counsel to the defendants Emeka Opara (SAN), while moving their bail application, urged the court to admit them to bail in the most liberal terms. Opara argued that his clients are presumed innocent of the charges against them until they are proven guilty. He also told the court that the first defendant, Ukatu, is an industrialist who is in partnership with the Nigerian Airforce and has provided employment for numerous workers. According to him, the second defendant, Ibekwute, is one of Ukatu’s employees. Opara assured the court that his clients would not jump bail. However, the prosecutor, Asuquo, urged the court to decline the application on the grounds that they are likely to jump bail. Justice Lifu, while adjourning the matter till July 18 for ruling on the bail applications, ordered that both Ukatu and Ibekwute be remanded in the NCoS’ custody. The judge also issued a Bench Warrant against Pius Enidom, who had jumped bail and failed to appear in court despite being issued a hearing notice. The NDLEA arrested Ukatu in April for allegedly importing 1,284 cartons of Tramadol with a market value of over N22 billion. Ukatu is involved in Abba Kyari’s alleged N3 billion drug deal.