DANA Air has announced it has commenced the operational audit advised by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) in a bid to return to flight operations. The NCAA had on Wednesday July 20, 2022 suspended Dana Airlines’ Air Transport Licence (ATL) and Air Operator Certificate (AOC) indefinitely. The industry regulator said the decision came as a result of an economic health audit, which revealed that Dana Airlines was no longer in a position to meet its financial obligations and conduct safe flight operations A statement signed by Dana Air’s spokesman, Kingsley Ezenwa, on July 21, 2022 explained that operational audits were regulatory and airlines were required to suspend their operations when the regulator calls for it. The statement read, “We are confident that having been successful in previous audits, we will come back even stronger and better. The audit is also an opportunity for us to prove once again and reassure our guests, clients and partners that we remain strong, safe, efficient and reliable. “As an airline, we are not insulated from the multiple challenges airlines and the aviation industry are grappling with daily, which include the recent skyrocketing cost of aviation fuel at N830/ltr, unavailability of forex, ground handling services, inflation and multiple taxation, among other operational challenges which airlines have made frantic efforts to communicate to the flying public and the government. “While this short stay off the market remains painful and heartbreaking for us, our customers, clients and partners, we remain very hopeful and very confident of our position.” The statement said its offices remained open to travel partners, clients, and customer service, as it advised displeased customers to apply for refunds by sending a mail to contact@flydanaair.com. Earlier today, some passengers besieged Murtala Muhammed Airport private terminal two, otherwise known as MM2, seeking a refund of their monies. Assurances by the airline could not calm the angry passengers. Meanwhile, Dana has continued to apologize to all affected customers, clients, and travel partners for any inconveniences.