BENUE State governor Samuel Ortom has said his Rivers State counterpart Nyesom Wike would remain in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ortom said despite the treatment he got from Atiku Abubakar, the party’s presidential flagbearer for the 2023 election, he, Wike, Oyo State governor Seyi Makinde and others would remain in the party. Speaking on Arise TV’s ‘The Morning Show’ monitored by The ICIR reporter on Thursday, Ortom said Wike remained a pillar for the party. READ ALSO: Wike’s son graduates from UK varsity, six years after he stopped foreign scholarships for Rivers students Atiku embarks on peace mission, meets Wike after PDP primary How Atiku beat Wike, Saraki, others to win PDP presidential ticket He said he had a meeting with Wike, Makinde and Abia State governor Okezie Ikpeazu in the United Kingdom, recently, where they agreed they would not leave the PDP. “One thing I want to assure Nigerians is that we are not going to defect to any political party. We are members of PDP; Wike in particular has been very instrumental to the growth of our party in the absence of any former President produced by our dear party. “You are aware that President Olusegun Obasanjo that was produced by this party, you are aware that President Goodluck Jonathan that was produced by this party also has issues. They decided not to get involved in what is happening in the party. “So, Wike was the anchor man. We discussed this matter in our meeting in London, and we all agreed that we are not leaving the party. But let there be due process and the need to ensure that everybody is carried along. “You’re aware that since the emergency of PDP in Nigeria, Wike has been there. Even some of us, because of the injustice that was meted out on us in 2015, left for APC, until APC started dancing in the wrong direction. Then, we left back to PDP. Who was instrumental in my coming back? It was Wike.” He said Atiku also left the PDP, while the party’s national chairman Iyorchia Ayu left for another party. Wike remained in the party, he stressed. According to him, he was among the people who convinced Wike to accept to be running make to Atiku, after he lost the 2023 presidential ticket in June, but the plan did not work out. The governor appealed to Atiku to reach out to Wike and pacify him. He also disclosed that Atiku had met with him, where he told him to reach out to Wike. Reacting to his absence at the PDP grand rally for the just-concluded Osun State gubernatorial poll, Ortom said he was in the UK and America during the campaigns and the election. He also said he met with Makinde, Wike and Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in the UK during the campaigns. He said the PDP’s victory in Osun would be replicated across the board in the 2023 election. “I can assure you that what you saw last Saturday in Osun State is what is going to be replicated in other elections as we move to 2023 because Nigerians are fed up with excuses on insecurity, economy, social life and everything that will add value to humanity and make things work. Nigerians are really worried about what is happening.”