LABOUR Party (LP) vice presidential candidate Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed has explained why he accepted to be the running mate of the party’s presidential candidate Peter Obi. The ICIR reported that Peter Obi, who is a former governor of Anambra State, unveiled Baba-Ahmed as his running mate in Abuja on Friday. In his acceptance speech, Baba-Ahmed said his commitment to rescuing Nigeria was among other reasons he accepted to join the presidential race with Obi. “My task here today is simple and it is to accept my nomination but just before I do that, I should give justifications as follows,” he said. “The undeniable and unchallengeable fundamental reason for being on this ticket is to rescue Nigeria. “And it goes logically without saying that you can only rescue that which is in trouble and Nigeria is in trouble and I cannot afford not to be part of the movement to rescue Nigeria. “The second reason is that I believe in the greatness of Nigeria. I believe there will be peace and prosperity, and I believe Nigeria people will unite.” Another reason, according to Baba-Ahmed, Obi’s integrity and achievements in the private sector. “Having come from the education sector and background, when I hear a valuable thing I know it and I cannot let it pass. The comment from our presidential candidate that the fertile land in the North is the crude oil of Nigeria is one. “How much more nationalist and detribalised can you (Obi) be? I see a brighter future for Nigeria from such a comment. He is someone of integrity and capacity. “This is a high point in my life and career. Having said this and with all trust in Almighty Allah and my belief in Nigeria and with all humility, I accept the generous nomination to be the vice-presidential candidate of the Labour Party for the 2023 general election.” In his address, Obi said Baba-Ahmed, who he described as “one of Nigeria’s youngest and brightest personalities”, has distinguished himself in various areas of human endeavours. He noted that Baba-Ahmed brings to his presidential ambition a great personality and academic strengths, as well as impeccable credentials. “Dr. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed brings to this mission, great personal, academic and entrepreneurial strengths; impeccable credentials and the added value of rich experience as an academician, businessman, public servant, economic and development expert, and politician. “He is a recognised wealth creator and manager who fits well into the mould of a transformative and adaptive leader,” Obi said.