NIGERIAN actress, Funke Akindele, has confirmed her nomination as the running mate to the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Olajide Adediran, alias Jandor, for the 2023 elections. Akindele is rallying support from the youths to enable the PDP oust the incumbent governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In her speech via her Instagram handle, she said her going into politics was anchored on three major sets of people: the youths, women, and children. READ ALSO: Lagos PDP Primaries: Court Strikes Out Suit Against Obanikoro Makinde, Adediran emerge PDP’s guber candidates in Oyo, Lagos Anti-Tinubu APC group, Lagos4Lagos, joins PDP in quest to dislodge godfather APC Accuses PDP Of Planning To Rig Lagos Polls She said, “With my known career in the entertainment industry spanning 25 years and the God-given grace to achieve remarkable success, I have had the privilege to work and engage with people from all works of life. Within this period, I have watched with great concern the plight of the less fortunate, especially within the youth category. This has drifted me to a less popular but equally strong passion, which is to help assist and contribute to the growth of youths, women, and children.” The actress, who traced her roots to Ikorodu, noted that her father was a schoolteacher and her mother, a medical professional, stressing her desire for hardwork and dignity. Akindele, saying a lot of young people had been victimized, highlighted the need for youths to come out in their numbers to take the act of governance from what she called “a privileged few.” The Jenifa and Omo Ghetto movie producer also announced that her career would now be put on hold, adding, “It is a huge personal sacrifice.” She thanked Adediran for the opportunity he has given her and promised that with her support, he would represent “a breath of fresh air that the mega city needs.” Just recently, the actress’s second marriage, to Abdulrasheed Bello, (JJC Skillz) hit the rocks. The couple got married in May 2016 and welcomed their set of twins in 2018. The 44-year-old actress was born on August 24, 1977, being the second child of three children. She attended Grace Children School Gbagada, Lagos State, and went on to obtain an Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Mass Communication from the former Ogun State Polytechnic, now known as Moshood Abiola Polytechnic. She also earned a Law degree from the University of Lagos. Akindele came into the limelight from the stables of a sitcom, I Need to Know, which ran from 1998 to 2002. She played Bisi, a curious but highly intelligent secondary school student. Her big break came with the introduction of Jenifa, a comic character the actress conceived herself in a movie she did in 2008. The film received four nominations at the Africa Movie Academy Awards in 2008. It also brought her the Best Actress in a Leading Role at the Africa Movie Academy Awards in 2009. A sequel was released in 2011, and a spin-off television series was launched in 2014.