THE Nigeria Export Processing Authority (NEPZA) said it has facilitated and attracted $1 billion worth of investment into the country’s economy. The agency in a statement issued on Sunday, further assured it would remain committed in pursuit of the nation’s economic development. Adesoji Adesugba, the Chief Executive Officer of NEPZA, spoke while handing over an approved Free Trade Zone declaration license to officials of an investing company, Hydropolis Investment Limited, in Abuja. It would be noted that NEPZA had on July 8 secured an investment worth $100 million at the Medical/Pharmaceutical Special Economic Zone in Lekki, Lagos for the production of a variety of medical equipment. Adesoji, speaking on further plans of the agency in attracting investment said it was scouting for investment to assist both the Federal Government and the sub-nationals to bridge the country’s development deficits speedily. He said that the Authority was enthused in delivering an operative free trade zone license to Hydropolis Investment Limited, adding that the now Hydropolis Free Trade Zone occupied 2000 hectares of land at Amfani Village at Magama Local Government Area in Niger State. The NEPZA managing director further said that the new zone was set to commit over $1 billion to establish an Industrial Park, Smart City and a world class Cargo International Airport that would provide backward linkages for both local and foreign businesses. He said that the development was another economic milestone as the zone was bound to positively impact on the country’s employment profile and Gross Domestic Product. In his own remarks, Abdulmalik Ndagi, Managing Director, Hydropolis Investment Limited, expressed satisfaction on the speedy nature of the approval, describing the zone as an ideal economic pivotal for the entire country, as according to him, the zone will be a replica of Lekki Free Trade Zone in the North Central region of the country. He further said that the strategic location of the zone to the Kainji Dam gave it the desired edge, adding also that the business ecosystem had already struck a deal with the federal government to source its electricity from the Dam. “We are sincerely indebted to the President, Muhammadu Buhari, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo as well as the NEPZA MD/CEO, Prof. Adesoji Adesugba for their efforts and magnanimity in ensuring this becomes a reality. “As a business venture, we are promising to leverage on this confidence reposed on us to contribute our quota to the development of this great nation. “Work has commenced in the location and we hope to roundoff the development of the internal infrastructure like road networks, offices, fencing, electricity before November when the president shall be inaugurating this world class business haven,’’ Ndagi said. 