A SUSPECTED drug trafficker, Opoola Mujidat, has been arrested by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos. She was arrested after the agency intercepted two passengers who were traveling to Oman on Monday, July 11, 2022. The two passengers, Raji Babatunde Kazeem and Akinbobola Omoniyi, were caught before boarding a flight. According to a statement by the spokesman of NDLEA Femi Babafemi, titled, ‘NDLEA arrests drug queen over narcotics in fetish bowls at Lagos airport,’ the NDLEA said Mujidat planted drugs concealed in a fetish bowl of soaps and sponge on the two passengers. “Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, have arrested a 27 year-old drug queen, Mrs Opoola Mujidat for planting drugs concealed in fetish bowls, containing scary native black soap and sponge on two Oman-bound male passengerss at the departure hall of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, MMIA, Lagos. “The passengers, Raji Babatunde Kazeem and Akinbobola Omoniyi, were travelling together to Oman, Middle East on Ethiopian Airlines flight on Monday 11th July when they were intercepted by NDLEA operatives at the airport. A search of their luggage revealed wraps of cannabis sativa hidden in bowls of native black soap and sponge packed into a bag containing food items, which Kazeem was carrying. “Both Kazeem and Omoniyi immediately alerted the anti-narcotic officers that Mujidat who was still within the vicinity gave the bag containing the illicit substance to them at the airport. She was promptly arrested,” the statement said. The agency added, “In Kaduna and Adamawa, over half a million pills of pharmaceutical opioids were seized and suspects arrested in raid operations across the two states. In Kaduna alone, 294,400 pills of Tramadol and Diazepam were seized from: Shaban Nasir, Aminu Usman and Shamsudeen Hussaini, along Abuja-Kaduna express road as well as Sa’idu Yahaya and Umar Abubakar, during a follow up operation in Kano, all on Friday 15th July.