PRESIDENTIAL candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu on Wednesday formally unveiled Kashim Shettima as his running mate. Shettima, a former governor of Borno State, was unveiled at Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre in Abuja. READ ALSO: US legal website reports increased web traffic due to Tinubu’s money laundering case file 2023: PDP asks court to disqualify Obi, Tinubu over change of running mates There is dignity in labour, Peter Obi replies Tinubu 2023: Sanwo-Olu urges Yoruba to support Tinubu’s presidential ambition Tinubu had named Shettima, a fellow Muslim, as his running mate on July 10. The Muslim-Muslim ticket generated controversy as many Nigerians, particularly Christians, condemned the development. Speaking at a ceremony organised to unveil the APC vice presidential candidate, Tinubu urged Nigerians to look beyond religion and ethnicity and focus on building a prosperous nation. “We hold the chance to move the nation and our collective cause forward as never before. To do this, we must be wise in our thoughts and courageous in our actions.  “We must win this election so that we can bring jobs, eliminate poverty, educate our children, (and) bring up our grandchildren without thinking of religious division or ethnic differences. We are one. Our passport is one; greenback is one. One nation, one destiny,” he said. The former Lagos State governor noted that his decision was borne out of the several consultations he engaged in with various stakeholders in the ruling party and has nothing to do with personal feelings. According to him, Shettima shares his dream of changing Nigeria for the better. “As a committed and progressive leader, I have read and listened to all that has been written and said. It has been an emotional situation for me. Out of many competent Nigerians and out of many advice, I know it has to be my decision. “And the hallmark of leadership is taking a decision at the right time when it ought to be taken. I consulted and I am proud to see all of you here acknowledging the quality of our Vice (Presidential Candidate) Kashim Shettima. “Yet, I remain steadfast in my belief and selection of this man. I believe and I am committed with him to the project Nigeria. With all the strength and stress that might come with it, we will change this country for the better.” APC national chairman and some governor elected on the platform of the party attended the event. The governors include Chairman of APC Governors Forum Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi, Abdulahi Ganduje, Kano, Abdulahi Sule, Nasarawa, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos, Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti, Adegboyega Oyetola, Osun, Babagana Zulum, Borno, Bello Masari, Katsina, and Dapo Abiodun, Ogun.