THE Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has confirmed the restoration of power after the national electricity grid collapsed on Wednesday. TCN said it lost an aggregate generation of 457 megawatts to the system collapse, as it affected other grid-connected units in the plants. The TCN, in a statement issued today by Ndidi Mbah, its general manager, public affairs, Ndidi Mbah, stated that the system failure was a result of a sudden drop in system frequency. READ ALSO: National grid collapses again, 38 days after last one FG’s delay in unbundling of TCN major cause of frequent grid collapse National grid crash, metaphor for collapse of Nigeria under Buhari – Atiku TCN restores Odukpani-Ikot Ekpene vandalised line that triggered April grid collapse The statement read, “The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) wishes to inform the general public that the national grid experienced system disturbance at about 11.27am today, 20th July 2022. The incident was as a result of a sudden drop in system frequency from 49.94Hz to 47.36Hz, which created system instability. “According to reports obtained from the National Control Centre (NCC), it was precipitated by the tripping of a Unit (with a load of 106mw) in one of the generating stations due to exhaust over temperature. “This unwholesome event, which pulled out other grid-connected Units in the plant, resulted in aggregated generation loss of 457mw. In its wake, a train of events ensued, culminating in the collapse of the national grid. “As obtainable in all systems, when a component of the electric power system is defective, the entire configuration is vitiated.” The TCN added that despite setbacks encountered at the initial stage, grid restoration had almost been completed by 11pm when the report was filed. “The Nigerian electricity supply industry appreciates the kind understanding of government and consumers of electricity within and outside the country. “We are committed to leveraging the concerted interventions instituted thus far to enhance power supply reliability so that the issue of system collapse will soon become a thing of the past,” the statement read.