THE serving overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Tunde Bakare, has disclaimed his purported endorsement of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu. In a statement the church issued to journalists on Friday, July 22, 2022, Bakare refuted statements credited to him by some publications that he had endorsed the APC presidential candidate. The former presidential aspirant on the platform of the APC also denied making uncomplimentary statements about the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), an umbrella organization of Christians in Nigeria. The statement read, “My attention has been drawn to the viral but concocted and ridiculous statements credited to me by some unscrupulous writers and bloggers. Amongst other things, I was quoted to have said that the agitations by the Christian Association of Nigeria were ploys by the opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to force a weak candidate on APC. READ ALSO: Tunde Bakare blames Christian leaders for APC’s Muslim-Muslim ticket APC primary: Tunde Bakare scored zero votes despite predicting he will be Nigeria’s next President Clergymen at Shettima’s unveiling are not big names – Tinubu Campaign Organisation “I was alleged to have said that CAN wanted to lure APC into presenting a weak candidate. As if the poorly strewn lies were not enough, I was quoted as saying that Tinubu is my candidate. Isn’t this the same Tinubu that I announced to all and sundry at the APC Presidential Convention that I was not stepping down for? He has suddenly become my candidate! “I am a nation builder who will not in any way create real or imaginary division among the people of our great country, through the medium of political parties or religion.” Bakare had last Sunday, while reacting to the decision of the APC to run a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket, blamed Christian leaders in Nigeria for propagating “a wrong notion of politics.” Meanwhile, the presence of some attendees attired in bishop’s cassock at the unveiling of the APC’s vice presidential candidate, Kashim Shettima, last Wednesday continues to generate controversies as many Christians and Christian leaders insist the ‘bishops’ were “fake.” Footages of the controversial ‘bishops’ are still trending on the social media.