THE Tinubu Support Group (TSG) has hailed the selection of former Borno State governor Kashim Shettima as the running mate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Bola Tinubu. The group described Shettima as “a very distinguished, loyal, disciplined and committed party man who will add great value and complement the presidential ticket, given his well-acknowledged rich legislative and executive pedigree spanning several years in our country.” In a statement signed by its Head of Media and Publicity, Tosin Adeyanju, on Monday, the TSG said Shettima did not only balance the ticket but would serve as a partner to the “highly experienced, cerebral, prepared and great mobiliser, His Excellency Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.” The group added: “An energetic grassroots mobiliser; Shettima, a two-time governor, senator and commissioner, has the needed political experience that would guarantee victory for our great party in 2023 elections as we journey towards repositioning our country for greater prosperity and development.” The group commended President Muhammadu Buhari, APC leaders and Tinubu for picking Shettima as his running mate. It also urged the party leaders, stakeholders and faithful to rally around the party’s candidate to ensure his victory at the poll. Tinubu had announced Shettima, an agricultural economist, banker and current senator representing Borno Central, as his running mate weeks after he won the party’s primary on June 8. Tinubu’s choice of Shettima has attracted criticism, especially from some Christian groups, who kicked against a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket. A senior advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, was among citizens who condemned the pairing. “It is a terrible choice, in one million ways!!! Nigerians, whether Muslims, Christians, Traditionalists, etc, should reject APC with their votes come 2023. “A Muslim-Muslim ticket in present-day Nigeria is fuel for Boko Haram, an incentive for ISWAP and a call for more terrorists. Unless of course, those parading the ticket are themselves complicit. There is no better way to insult our sensibilities,” Adegboruwa wrote on his Facebook page on Sunday. But some Christians, including those in Shettima’s home state of Borno, are pleased with Tinubu’s choice. Tinubu promised to be fair to all, noting that competence is more important than other considerations in picking who works with him.