The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will today , Wednesday, July 20, 2022, formally unveil its vice presidential candidate Kashim Shettima. National Publicity Secretary of the party Felix Morka disclosed this in a statement. Meanwhile, the Tinubu Campaign Organization (TCO) has defended Shettima’s selection as the APC VP candidate. READ ALSO: Tunde Bakare blames Christian leaders for APC’s Muslim-Muslim ticket Osun election: Yusuf Lasun of LP beats APC, PDP to win polling unit US legal website reports increased web traffic due to Tinubu’s money laundering case file Spokesman of TCO Bayo Onanuga said APC presidential candidate Bola Tinubu made the choice in the country’s best interest. According to Onanuga, religion and ethnicity were not considered in Shettima’s selection. “If Asiwaju intended to cash in on ethnicity, he would have picked a running mate from the North Western part of Nigeria, which has the highest number of registered voters. “The factors at play were issues germane to confronting the multi-dimensional crisis our nation faces today: insecurity, economic problems, such as the unemployment crisis facing our youths. “Our candidate canvassed on his track record in Lagos to win the APC primary last June. As governor between 1999 and 2007, he was able to transform a decadent state into the fourth biggest economy in Africa. He believes that his feat in Lagos can be replicated all over Nigeria. “To assist him in realising this vision, he picked Kashim Shettima, who also established a track record of development in Borno State while he was governor for eight years, despite the Boko Haram crisis. Surely, only the deep knows how to call onto the deep. Nigerians have a lot to gain in having the two tested leaders at the helm of affairs. “Naturally, some Nigerians with closet motives have failed to see the opportunities and possibilities the twin candidates present to our country at this time of difficult security, economic and political developments, preferring to fan the embers of religion and ethnic divisions among their unsuspecting and vulnerable compatriots”, Onanuga said. Onanuga maintained that Nigerians should be more interested in a leader that can deliver dividends of democracy to citizens.