NKIRU Eze, the grieving mother of Chidera, a five-year-old pupil of the Redeemer’s Nursery and Primary School, Ogba, has called on the Lagos State government to sanction the Ivory Health Club, Ikeja, Lagos State, for what she alleged was the role it played in her son’s death. Nkiru, who spoke with The ICIR in a telephone interview, expressed appreciation to the Lagos State Government for shutting down the school, but said the government must do everything to get justice for her son. Chidera had drowned on Monday, July 4, 2022 during a swimming lesson organised by the school at the Ivory Health Club. Caregivers had taken Chidera and his colleagues to the Ivory Health Club’s swimming facility, but failed to keep an eye on him when he slipped into the deep end of the pool. His father, Anthony Eze, alleged that the teachers, caregivers and lifeguards were careless enough not to be aware that his son had drowned. Eze said, “I dropped my children at the Redeemers Nursery and Primary School on Acme Road, Ogba, on Monday morning, and I went to work. At 10.52am, I got a call from their head teacher, Mrs Adeola Oladipo, who told me that my son was involved in an accident and had been rushed to the Ikeja Medical Centre. “I rushed down there, but what I saw was the lifeless body of my son. I asked the head teacher what happened and she said she did not know. I asked the doctor what happened and he said he was brought in dead. I asked the teachers, caregivers and workers at the club what happened and they gave no explanation.” Nkiru had revealed in an earlier interview how she initially opposed the introduction of the extra-curricular activity. She said, “We appreciate the Lagos State Government for what it has done. The school has been shut down, but we want the same for the club as well. The case about criminal negligence is still in court as we speak, and we are on the matter.” The Lagos State Government shut down the school on July 4, 2022. A statement by the state’s Ministry of Education said the school would remain closed pending an administrative investigation of its operations and procedures, and of the activities of its officials. The Commissioner for Education, Folasade Adefisayo, who signed the statement, said that the school was yet to be appropriately registered. It read, “A preliminary probe by the Office of Education Quality Assurance of the Ministry has shown that the Redeemers Nursery and Primary School, Ogba, is yet to conclude its registration and is, therefore, not yet an approved school. It asked the parents of the late pupil to be patient and wait for the conclusion of its administrative investigation. The ICIR paid a visit to the school on July 5, 2022, but was denied entrance to meet the school authorities. Our correspondent did not see any student in the school but observed activities among teachers still going on, and saw different buses drive into the compound. Calls and text messages to the Public Relations Officer, Lagos State Police Command, Superintendent Benjamin Hundeyin, were unanswered on the status of its investigation on the matter.