THE Federal Government has declared Monday, July 11, and Tuesday, July 12, 2022, as public holidays to celebrate the Eid-El Kabir celebration. A statement signed by the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Interior Shuaib Belgore said Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola made the announcement on  behalf of the Federal Government on Thursday. The statement said, “The Federal Government has declared Monday, July 11th and Tuesday, July 12th, 2022, as public holidays to mark this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebration. “Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, who made the declaration on behalf of the Federal Government, congratulated all Muslims and Nigerians both at home and in the Diaspora on this occasion.” Aregbesola urged Muslims to continue to imbibe the spirit of love, peace, kindness and sacrifice, as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad, and to also use the period to pray for peace, unity, prosperity and the stability of the country. The minister assured Nigerians that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is “committed to the security of lives and properties of all Nigerians, empowering the citizens for successful living, the provisions of social investments programmes and adequate security in the schools”. While wishing Muslims a happy Eid-el Kabir celebration, the minister urged Nigerians to take responsibility by reporting any suspicious individuals and criminal activities they observe around them to law enforcement agencies. He urged citizens to use the N-Alerts application designed to mitigate security challenges with a prompt response from security agencies. “We must all take responsibility for the security of lives and property as we celebrate this year’s festival,” he said. He also urged Nigerians to come together to achieve relative peace for harmonious coexistence and put an end to insecurity in the country. While wishing Nigerians a happy Eid-el Kabir celebration, the minister assured of protection for all citizens, maintenance of law and order and keeping the peace in all situations.