LABOUR Party (LP) presidential candidate Peter Obi has said Nigerians go into government to start giving excuses instead of solving problems. Obi spoke on Arise TV’s ‘Morning Show’ on Wednesday. He said he would hit the ground running if elected President. READ ALSO: Nigeria in coma, I&#8217;m the specialist to save it &#8211; Peter Obi We have nothing to do with Peter Obi – IPOB 2023: Photoshopped picture of Peter Obi in Bola Tinubu’s ‘cap’ circulates online Peter Obi returns to Nigeria after 3-day trip to Egypt “What you see here is that people go into government and start giving excuses. I want to see everything now, calculate the sources of which I am going to solve it. So when I go there, I will hit the ground running. “I don’t want to go there and start giving excuses. The job of a leader is not to give excuses; it is to solve a problem. “I don’t want to be one of those who will be hired, and when I go there, I will start reminding them of where they are coming from. When you are hired, you are hired because the person there is not doing well,” he said. Obi said he is contesting to be the President of Nigeria so he can solve the country’s problems. The former governor of Anambra State also said he will not be a regional President if elected. “I am contesting to be Nigeria’s President to solve the country’s problems and not because I am from a part or region of the country. “We need to do things that will bring people hope. Nigerians must be proud of this country, and that is what I plan to do,” he said. Speaking on his recent trip to Egypt, which some people criticised, Obi said he went there to study how they achieved 50 thousand megawatts of electricity in a few years. “I went to Egypt, Egypt, Vietnam, India, deployed the highest, fastest electricity in the past five years, and I said let me start with Egypt. I am going to go to the other ones. “Egypt moved their power generation distribution from less than 20,000 in 2015 today 58,000. Just go and ask. “That’s what they did. You need to go and see what they were able to do,” he stated. “Today, Egypt’s power requirement is 30 thousand megawatts; their generation and distribution is 58 thousand. “I went to study who did the plant. Who are the contractors? How did they get the funding? “I have been able to ascertain. I visited the plant, went to the company that built it, met with the CEO,” Obi added.