LABOUR Party (LP) presidential candidate Peter Obi has promised to run an all-inclusive government and respect the rule of law if elected President in 2023. The former Anambra State governor made the promise while unveiling Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed as his running mate at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja on Friday. “Securing, uniting and making Nigeria productive require steady and trusted hands. I am confident that with Dr. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed by my side, we shall ensure that in moving Nigeria forward, no state or community will be left behind. “Pursuant to its statutory responsibility to protect, our Government will promote the rule of law, ensure that governance is inclusive, cost-effective, transformative, less transactional; and national investment regenerative,” Obi said. Further pledging to move Nigeria from consumption to production, he said his campaign manifesto which will form the principles, priorities, and programmes for turning the country around would be anchored on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). He said he will pursue proactive, well-articulated strategies aimed at tackling the key challenges that are of utmost concern to domestic and foreign investors. Baba-Ahmed is the founder and Pro-Chancellor of Baze University, Abuja. The Kaduna-born politician is a graduate of Economics from the University of Maiduguri. He represented Zaria Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives from 2003 to 2007. In 2011, he was elected as the Senator for Kaduna North Senatorial District but his election was overturned by the Electoral Tribunal in 2012. Obi said his running mate, who he described as “one of Nigeria’s youngest and brightest personalities, who has distinguished himself in various areas of human endeavours” brings to his presidential ambition great personality and academic strengths, as well as impeccable credentials. “Dr. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed brings to this mission, great personal, academic and entrepreneurial strengths; impeccable credentials and the added value of rich experience as an academician, businessman, public servant, economic and development expert, and politician. “He is a recognised wealth creator and manager who fits well into the mould of a transformative and adaptive leader,” he said.