EX-WIFE of former United States (US) President Ivana Trump was found unconscious and unresponsive in her home on Thursday, the New York Police department disclosed. “An emergency call was placed at 12:40pm. When first responders arrived (at Trump’s home on the Upper East Side) they found her unconscious and unresponsive. There does not appear to be any criminality,” the police said. Meanwhile, the New York Office of Chief Medical Examiner said it would further investigate whether she fell down the stairs, as she was found unconscious near a staircase in her home. Ivana, aged 73 years, who was pronounced dead at the scene, was the mother of former President Donald Trump’s oldest children – Ivanka, Donald Jr and Eric. Reacting to the news of his ex-wife’s demise, Trump said she was a beautiful amazing woman who led a great and inspirational life. “I am very saddened to inform all of those that loved her, of which there are many, that Ivana Trump has passed away at her home in New York City,” Trump posted on Truth Social. “She was a wonderful, beautiful, and amazing woman, who led a great and inspirational life. Her pride and joy were her three children, Donald Jr., Ivanka, and Eric. She was so proud of them, as we were all so proud of her. Rest In Peace, Ivana!” Their children also released a statement, calling her “an incredible woman – a force in business, a world-class athlete, a radiant beauty and caring mother and friend”. Her only daughter Ivanka added she lived life to the fullest and never missed an opportunity to laugh and dance. Ivana Trump was born in Zlin, in what is now the Czech Republic, in 1949. She became a skier, ski instructor and model, and married Donald Trump, then a New York real estate magnate, in 1977. She later joined Trump’s business, managing both his casinos and hotels and the projection of a glitzy, gaudy lifestyle made the pair prominent figures in Manhattan society and the global celebrity culture throughout the 1980s. However, Trump became involved with another Marla Maples, which led to a messy divorce for the couple in 1992 and Donald proceeded to marry his new romance figure afterwards. Donald and Ivana managed to put the divorce experience behind and maintained cordial relationship. Ivana told media outlets she supported her former husband’s move into politics and also claimed to be an informal adviser to him.