PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday presided over a meeting of the National Security Council (NSC) at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The meeting comes two weeks after a similar one that held after the terrorist attack on the Kuje correctional facility in Abuja, which led to the release of detained insurgents. The President had on Wednesday decried the murder of a Catholic priest, John Cheitnum of the Kafanchan Diocese in Kaduna State. READ ALSO: VIDEO: Buhari promised to vigorously campaign for us – Shettima after visit Buhari’s APC govt bought into my plan to privatise NNPC – Atiku Buhari directs ministers to resolve ASUU strike in two weeks NNPC Limited: Buhari charges company to operate in line with global best practices Cheitnum was killed four days after he was abducted by gunmen. The president in statement by his spokesman Garba Shehu condemned attacks on innocent Nigerians, particularly on religious leaders. “I am deeply disturbed by the murder of this revered religious figure by outlaws who seem to be bent on creating chaos and disorder in the country. “The persistent attacks on innocent people, including religious figures, by gunmen is a matter of grave concern for this administration, because security is one of the major issues of our campaign promises.” Buhari reassured Nigerians on his commitment solve the insecurity issues ravaging the country. “Let me reassure Nigerians that my commitment to this issue is as firm as ever. I have always made it a duty to regularly summon security chiefs to discuss these challenges and the way forward. I’m not allowing the security chiefs to rest unless and until we find a very effective solution to this disturbing security situation. The security of all Nigerians remains our major priority and I assure Nigerians that we are determined to crush these enemies of humanity with all the resources at our disposal.” Those in attendance at the Thursday National Security Council meeting include Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff to the President Ibrahim Gambari, National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno, Chief of Defense Staff Lucky Irabor, Chief of Army Staff Farouk Yahaya, Chief of Naval Staff Awwal Gambo and the Chief of Air Staff Isiaka Oladayo Amao. Others are Inspector-General of Police Alkali Baba Usman, Director-General of the Department of State Service (DSS) Yusuf Bichi and Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) Ahmed Rufai.