LABOUR Party (LP) presidential candidate Peter Obi on Wednesday reacted to comments made by the flagbearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu in Osun State on Tuesday. The former Lagos State governor had, while speaking during the APC mega governorship rally in Osogbo, dismissed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the LP are mushroom parties. Tinubu said members of the LP would “labour till death”. READ ALSO: 2023: Sanwo-Olu urges Yoruba to support Tinubu’s presidential ambition 2023: Afenifere leader Adebanjo backs Peter Obi 2023: Peter Obi promises all-inclusive govt, respect for rule of law 2023: Muslim-Muslim ticket should not matter to Southerners &#8211; Akeredolu “I ask you to please do the same thing you did in Ekiti. Come out with your PVCs and vote massively for APC. “The voting is now in your hand. Be very vigilant. Be watchful. You will not do it in vain. “Think about your children and vote accordingly so you can see the future. Come out en masse. Don’t mind PDP and other mushroom parties — parties like Labour; they will labour till they die. God will not make you labourers. “You’re next. We will be here till tomorrow. We will come back here for the victory dance. Look at the trajectory of our lives. We make promises and fulfil them. We are the ones upholding the party, the Buhari party. Don’t answer the naysayers,” he said. Reacting on Wednesday, Obi noted that there is dignity in labour. The former Anambra State governor, who was also in Osogbo to campaign for the LP governorship candidate, urged the people to reject the APC and the PDP in the election. “Those of you who have gathered here, it is easy for you to think those other parties who have kept Nigeria in darkness for 23 years are better. You are the one that is suffering. They have stolen your future and I want you to recover it from them. You have no jobs; you have no food. “Your children are not in school, and their children are schooling overseas. This is the time to recover Nigeria. This is the time to take back Nigeria. We have governors that owing salaries and pensions, and labour people who are working hard have not been paid. “Somebody said that they can labour till death. When they show hatred or talk like that, Labour Party will show them love. There is dignity in labour. We have promised to move Nigeria forward from consumption to production. You cannot do production without labour. Those of you who have laboured will get their reward. That is what we want to do in Nigeria,” Obi said.