LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has called on the Yoruba to support the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, in the 2023 presidential election. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke at the grand finale of the 2022 edition of the Ojude-Oba Festival, in Ijebu Ode, Ogun State, on Monday, urged the Yoruba race to rally around Tinubu to enable him actualise his dream of becoming Nigeria’s President in 2023. He said Nigerians, particularly the Yoruba, will benefit a lot if Tinubu becomes the next President of Nigeria. “Let me use this opportunity to make this rallying call on all true sons and daughters of the Yoruba race and pronounce that in the unifying spirit of the Ojude Oba celebration, it is my firm hope and belief that the Yoruba race will unite as one behind the momentous candidature of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a proud son of the race and one of the most formidable and experienced politicians to have ever emerged from Africa,” the governor said. On the importance of the festival, Sanwo-Olu said, “It is noteworthy that the Ojude Oba Festival has while staying true to its Islamic roots, also expanded to become a unifying symbol and occasion for people of all faiths, tribes, and tongues, as well as a global celebration of Ijebu heritage and culture. “We must never lose sight of this unifying element at a time when the forces of division seem to be working so actively to undermine all that we cherish as a people. “Celebrations like Ojude Oba remind us that evil will never triumph over good. As a proud son of Lagos, it is personally very pleasing to be in this colourful ceremony among my Ijebu brothers and sisters. “We, the people of Lagos and Ogun, share a long history and cultural bond, shaped by the same forces and experiences, nourished by the same waterways, and living up to the same Omoluabi standards and ideals.” He added, “This was what spurred my brother governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun and I to, in 2021, establish the Lagos-Ogun Joint Development Commission, to collaborate on key areas of mutual benefit and development, and accelerate socio-economic growth for all our communities and our people. “The road network linking Ijebu-Ode, Epe and Lekki is yet another concrete manifestation of our collaboration. Ogun State has completed their own stretch, while we will complete our own end this year, opening up new commercial and logistics opportunities in that axis, and positively impacting the lives of our people, many of whose daily lives cross our joint borders.” Sanwo-Olu’s statement is coming amid controversy over Tinubu’s choice of former Borno State governor Kashim Shettima, a fellow Muslim, as his running mate. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and many Nigerians have rejected a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket.