RIVERS State Governor Nyesom Wike has been criticised after his son Jordan bagged a law degree from the University of Exeter, in the United Kingdom (UK). This is coming six years after Wike announced that the state government lacks the resources to sustain funding of the Rivers State Sustainable Development Agency (RSSDA) overseas scholarship programme. READ ALSO: 2023: APC govs, Fayose meet Wike in Port Harcourt Peter Obi visits Wike in Port Harcourt Atiku embarks on peace mission, meets Wike after PDP primary Wike affirms support for winner of Presidential primary, says he won’t leave party “We have to be realistic. We all know what is happening in Nigeria. We now have a dwindling revenue both from FAAC and IGR. We all know our exchange rates,” the state government announced in 2015. It went ahead to propose sustained scholarship for all non-final-year beneficiaries of the overseas scholarship programme who returned home to continue their studies at either the University of Port Harcourt or the Rivers State University of Science and Technology. The ICIR reports that $1 which exchanged for N196 at the official exchange rate in 2015, now has a value of N415, which is an increase of 112 per cent. Nigerians were irked as photos from the graduation ceremony emerged on Monday, especially as universities across the country have remained shut since February and academic activities grounded, over disagreement between the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the Federal Government. Reacting to the News, a Doctor of Applied Ethic Victor Wolemonwu said Wike’s action shows that he is a self-centered politician. “He stopped the scholarships of Rivers students who were already studying abroad. Some of them had to work to fund their studies. “Others came back home frustrated. Today, he is celebrating his son’s graduation from a university in the UK. Evidence of a self-centred politician,” Wolemonwu who lectures in the UK said. Meanwhile, Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has urged ASUU to “sympathise with the people” and call off their five-months-old strike. While receiving some governors who paid him a visit at home in Daura, Katsina State, Buhari expressed worry that the strike will have generational consequences on families, the educational system and the future development of the country. “Colonial type education was geared towards producing workers in government. Those jobs are no longer there. Our young people should get education to prepare them for self-employment,” the President said.