A SURGICAL procedure carried out on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday has been described as successful. Osinbajo underwent the surgery on his femur at Duchess International Hospital, Ikeja, Lagos. A statement released by the Medical Director of the hospital Adedoyin Dosunmu-Ogunbi said the procedure was performed by a team comprising of six specialist doctors. The statement said, “The Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, GCON, was admitted to the Duchess International Hospital GRA, Ikeja, Lagos, today on account of a fracture of his right femur (thigh bone), possibly related to a longstanding injury associated with a game of squash. “He had a surgical operation performed by a team of specialist doctors, including Dr Wallace Ogufere (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr Om Lahoti (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr Babajide Lawson (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr Ken Adegoke (Consultant in Anaesthesia & Critical Care); Dr Oladimeji Agbabiaka (Consultant Anaesthetist); and Dr Adedoyin Dosunmu-Ogunbi (Consultant Physician & Medical Director). “The operation was successful, and he is expected to be discharged within the next few days.” Osinbajo had earlier disclosed in a statement on Saturday that he has been admitted in hospital and is scheduled to undergo surgery for a leg injury. The vice president hinted that he sustained the recurrent injury while playing squash. “I have been admitted today at the hospital for a surgical procedure on account of a recurrent pain in the leg possibly sustained from an injury sustained while playing squash,” he said. Confirming the incident via his verified Twitter handle, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the Vice President Laolu Akande said doctors would give more details concerning the incident later. “VP Osinbajo is in the hospital today for a surgical procedure on account of a recurrent pain in the leg possibly sustained from an injury while playing squash. His doctors would give an update of the treatment later today.”