THE Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has arraigned John Kester Ifeanyichukwu, a professor, over bribery allegations and inducement of officers of the Commission. In a single-count charge brought before Honourable Justice A.O. Otaluka of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), High Court 12, sitting in Apo, Abuja, the ICPC is accusing the professor of issuing a cheque valued at $40,000 to a staff of the anti-graft agency. READ ALSO: ICPC set to track 550 projects in 18 states ICPC opposes Bayelsa govt’s motion to stop corruption investigation According to a statement by the ICPC spokesperson Azuka Ogugua, the cheque was part of the $50,000 and a house in Abuja, promised to the officer to compromise the investigation by retrieving the accused person’s devices, MacBook S/N CIML8BUGDTY3, MacBook S/N W80204J7ATN and iPhone pro11 which were in the custody of ICPC for investigative purposes. “Ifeanyichukwu had earlier been reported to the Commission by the Presidency for alleged acts bordering on corruption, extortion and money laundering,” the statement said. ICPC, in a charge numbered CR/025/2022, informed the court of how the defendant induced one of its operatives to smuggle out a particular iPhone and a laptop and replace them with a dummy that was to be provided by his assistant. The accused person’s action is contrary to Section 18 (b) and punishable under Section 18 (d) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000. The professor pleaded not guilty to the charge when it was read to him. He was thereafter admitted to bail in the sum of N10 million and two sureties in like sum. The court ordered that the sureties must be residents within the court’s jurisdiction, and one of them must have a landed property in Abuja. The trial judge also ordered that the defendant’s international passport and other valid travel documents be submitted to the court before the next adjourned date; otherwise, his bail will be revoked. The case has been adjourned to June 21 2022, for the commencement of hearing.